{{iter=265404}}
Record ordered on behalf of the NSIrP

<                                                                     >
< sabre                                                               >
<                                                                     >
< currently translating                                               >
< iteration[265404].chevrin.goaxal -> iteration[197420].human.english >
<                                                                     >
< [ note                                                              >
< [ multiple words are untranslatable                                 >
< [ untranslatable words have been replaced with MNEMONICS            >
<                                                                     >

MEFET : Your attention, Children! AURAK's presence honors us today!
MEFET : Rise now for our King!

AURAK : Yes, yes, thank you. Be seated, everyone, we have a lot to discuss.

YANIS : Of course.
YANIS : Our Lord, MEFET is telling me interesting (and, frankly, concerning)
        things about your plans. Do tell, what is on your mind?

AURAK : Gentlemen, I would like to put into action the largest and most
        spectacular display of faith ever constructed by our kind.
AURAK : MEFET has spoken to me and deemed my ideas doable, but I need more
        direction. So I have gathered you all here for guidance.
AURAK : In short: I want to fill the Glaciercreek Reservoir with LLOKIN blood.

YANIS : Indeed. Now I remember why I was concerned.

AURAK : Trust me, I understand. MEFET and I have done the math, and the result
        is dissapointing.

MEFET : On average, a LLOKIN contains one-point-two litres of blood. The
        Reservoir can hold about 193 billion litres. This would require the
        apprehension and killing of about 160 billion LLOKIN. 
MEFET : As I understand, TARAN, this is far beyond the current estimate of how
        many of these creatures even exist on the Surface of the World.

TARAN : Far beyond?
TARAN : MEFET, reports from surveys have me unconvinced the current number can
        be any larger than 350 thousand. This is absolutely NOT doable.

IGLAS : We can always take them and let them repopulate.

TARAN : IGLAS, that limit of 350 thousand is not based on their current
        population, rather off of geographical data. There is simply not enough
        space on the Surface that is habitable to them. The Terminator is a
        surprisingly small ring.
TARAN : Say we were to let them grow to their limit, then capture all but two
        and let them renumerate to 350 thousand again. It would take about 551
        thousand cycles of this before the reservoir was full.
TARAN : Moreover, say the LLOKIN population doubles every 10 years until it
        reaches this cap of 350 thousand. This is itself a generous estimate,
        and even then, it would take about 55 years for the cap to be reached
        each time.
TARAN : Our Focus will fizzle out well before we could complete this. 

IGLAS : How far could we get?

TARAN : I think you've just missed the point I tried to make.

AURAK : No, IGLAS, I like how you're thinking. 
AURAK : The importance of this project might not be so much that we actually
        fill the reservoir, just that we had a system in place to do it, and we
        spent such incredible energy building it.
AURAK : It'd be an unprecedented campaign of death and suffering. Imagine the
        display for a moment, would you?
AURAK : They'd be in a constant cycle of massacre... nearly to extinction, then
        returned to health, and slaughtered again, the bodies of the dead
        piling to the stars and their blood spilling over the World...

TARAN : Our Lord, contain yourself, please.
TARAN : A more effective display is one we will complete, no? I think doing
        otherwise sends the wrong message. We must not only dream for NYXEM, we
        must accomplish.

IGLAS : May I suggest... a smaller pool.

TARAN : I agree. 
TARAN : Reduce to scope to something we can finish in 200, 300 years.

MEFET : Our Lord, I am in agreement with TARAN and IGLAS. Perhaps we should
        consider an artificially limited timeframe and determine how much
        blood we could acquire during that time.
MEFET : I would like to shift the discussion - what would we need to do to
        maximize progress towards this goal?

TARAN : As I mentioned, geography is a huge limiting factor. If we had more
        livable space, we could easily make more LLOKIN.
TARAN : IGLAS, how reasonable would it be to create housing for them past
        the Terminator?

IGLAS : Hmm...
IGLAS : Could we not just pack them, like, really tightly in the Caldera? Is
        that 350 thousand number based on how they live normally, or is that
        assuming near max per square unit?

TARAN : Trust me, 350 thousand is about the maximum you could possibly get.

IGLAS : In that case... TARAN, I need to know, at an absolute minimum:
        How warm does their housing need to be?
        How much food do they need to subsist off of?
        How long is it until they mature (stop growing)?
        How quickly can they reproduce?

TARAN : All of that actually depends. Technically, you could keep them in
        torpor for nearly their entire lives by dropping them below 30 C.
        They'll need much less food in that state, but still enough to let
        them mature. It might slow the maturing process, I suppose.
TARAN : Obviously, they'll grow fastest if we keep them around 39 C and feed
        them enough. "Enough" still isn't very much. A meal once a week
        might do. 
TARAN : Honestly, you will have a harder time getting the right kind of food
        for their diet. A constant supply of arbeast meat isn't going to cut it
        for them, and we can't grow sandweed anywhere around here without what
        I assume would be pretty destructive terraforming.

AURAK : Are you two suggesting we breed them like animals?

IGLAS : Honestly, TARAN, that doesn't sound impossible. And... yes, our Lord, I
        believe we are.
IGLAS : In fact, we might be able to do this mostly in the Caldera. Isn't a
        large portion of the Caldera consumed by ocean?

TARAN : Yes, quite a large part.

IGLAS : Picture this, then - floating settlements.

WARES : Can I interject?
WARES : Everything you're suggesting is completely impossible without total
        military control of the Caldera. Can you tell the Children how they're
        supposed to lead their crusaders into a 40 C environment, the most
        hellish terrain on the Surface, against an enemy we know tactically
        nothing about, and claim a decisive victory?

NERAN : Two words: Gravity bombs. Focus-assisted gravity warheads.

WARES : That technology doesn't exist, and it never will, NERAN.

NERAN : No heart, WARES! I dislike your lack of faith.
NERAN : The science behind this isn't as unreasonable as you think. The
        warheads simply need to be launched high enough to enter freefall
        above the Caldera, then navigated around the Focus with some kind of
        control system as they fall. 

WARES : I need to talk to you about this, NERAN. Your delusions of grandeur
        are unhelpful.
WARES : This has been tried numerous times before. The level of precision
        needed to cause the warheads to enter freefall is absolutely
        unreasonable. You either bombard the other side of the Surface or they
        drop directly back down on us.
WARES : And a control system? Fins and rudders aren't magic, you know.

AURAK : Enough, WARES, I've heard this conversation too many times. If it gives 
        us a chance, we have to take that chance! I'm tired of waiting for the
        perfect plan, the optimal chance of success, the dissent to progress.
        We will miss our shot if we don't take it.
AURAK : TARAN and IGLAS; I like this farm idea. I want you to get started on
        it. Gather your workforce.
AURAK : NERAN; get together with MEFET and push forward with the gravity
        warhead. I want progress on this.
AURAK : WARES; prepare your forces for an invasion of the Caldera.

IGLAS : Do we, uh, start in the Caldera, our Lord?

AURAK : Self-organize! Maybe you do, maybe you don't. Either way, I'm not a
        part of that conversation. Get together and decide what's reasonable.
AURAK : Gentlemen, this is a time for action. The Focus was not created to burn
        finitely so we could waste its gifts.
AURAK : If we do not prove to NYXEM soon that we are worthy of Ascension, we
        will still be here when the Surface collapses.
AURAK : We must finish His work. All I want from you is one thing.
AURAK : Show me your faith.


YANIS : For the record, I'm still concerned.

< record ends >

