{{iter=768220}}
Record ordered on behalf of the NSIrP

<                                                                    >
< sabre                                                              >
<                                                                    >
< currently translating                                              >
< iteration[768220].osmite.silver -> iteration[197420].human.english >
<                                                                    >
< [ note                                                             >
< [ multiple words are untranslatable                                >
< [ untranslatable words have been replaced with MNEMONICS           >
<                                                                    >

_ : 

The library tenses. Its anxious arms grip the dirt of the dried planetoid with
trembling disposition. It is overeager for the moment it can unfurl its flaming
wings and leave the dying land behind - the machine, as its keeper, waits
impatiently to advance somewhere it may, if in vain, feel more secure, more
permanent. Its mechanical, dust-caked exterior rises and falls with hydraulic
breaths in an engineered ritual preparing for its departure, although that
moment will not come for several more weeks.

For now, there are visitors. 

The exterior of the library is austere and unfeeling. It is a lattice of
imposing plates of worn metal, stamped with OSMITE numbers and codes, moving
clamorously across the library’s surface on tracks and gears. The skin of the
living machine undulates in pulses up the library’s spire, beckoning towards
the jaundiced, cloudless sky, while lights blink rhythmically across the octet
of mechanical arms upon which it stands. Its entrance is similarly uninviting;
a sand-speckled walkway falls from its mouth and into the dust below, framed
with criss-crossing hazard stripes, guardrails of such overcautious durability
they could crush a coasting aircraft, and sweeping floodlights that penetrate
the darkest night and thickest storms - though neither were really seen here.

But once inside the library, and the chains and pistons of the overwhelming
machinery spun the monolithic airlock open and shut, the visitors stepped into
a completely different world. The bleak and brackish metal and rivets gave way
to homely, organic shapes - spaces with flowing architecture, arches and
columns with spiraling segments in soothing earthy grays, lit by torches of
calming blue and green that flickered like distant stars. The welded metal
beneath the their feet was now a porous, foamy carpet, colored rich shades of
red and orange that melanged in spiraling patterns. The noise, too, had
changed, from the deafening grinding and heaving of machinery to delicate music - 
strange, plinking sounds and ethereal drones, as if beads of crystal rained
into pyres of glass and settled in steel bowls. A crisp, cerulean liquid flowed
under the floor, which could be faintly heard - and even seen, in spots where
the carpet ended and the floor turned from polished wood to tiled cells of
glass. From these oases of glass, the library’s bookshelves rose - gnarled
honeycombs whose irregular compartments were filled with colorful spheres, and
along whose edges unknowable runes glowed faintly with soft light. 

To alien eyes, it would look a bit strange, perhaps even sinister. To the
OSMITE, it looked like home.

FLOAT : We have come, SIGIL - for your knowledge.

_ : 

The two visitors approached a pod framed with vermillion candles. The library’s
keeper, chartreuse light dancing across the wet surface of her crimson eye,
remained trapped in her reading, the little pupil of light in its center
rolling up and down across an unfolded text.

FLOAT : SIGIL.

_ : 

The second visitor’s eye shrinking in unamusement, he spoke over his friend.

QUARK : Ahem.
QUARK : _The library_.

SIGIL : Ah!
SIGIL : Yes, of course, I thought I heard those eight feet come in - and there they are, attached to you lovely QUARK, and his companion. 
SIGIL : Ask of what _the library_ may do for you, friend.

FLOAT : We’re looking for the recent publication on BEMITE physiology. Do you have it?

SIGIL : < eye contracts >
SIGIL : If only you had been more specific, the library would have been able to aid in your search - but alas, there are many such _“recent”_ publications, and you will remain ignorant of what you desi-

QUARK (interjecting) : The famous one.

SIGIL : < shoots upright >
SIGIL : Of course! What a _delightful request_!
SIGIL : The library claims now, you will find what you seek at cluster K, cell 12, 4, 18, inner contour, marked by the ecstatic red hue. 
SIGIL : You are permitted to the studies upstairs to review this literature, at your leisure. 
SIGIL : Good hunting, friends.

_ : 

With that, SIGIL removed her gleaming pupil from QUARK’s, and returned to studying the reading at her desk. FLOAT attempted to rise a flat palm in thanks, but was ignored.

The visitors, feet pattering lightly on the loamy carpet, peeled from SIGIL’s desk back into the main courtyard of the library, searching for the intersection of the coordinates she had provided. They approached cluster K, a massive, honeycombed bookshelf that beckoned towards the dark ceiling, the colored orbs within its rough hexagonal cells melting into the space like stars into the night sky. Each layer protruded slightly, making the shelf itself a precarious staircase up to its higher levels, with sturdy ivory beams standing within reach to help keep balance. And the cell SIGIL had directed them two was indeed high up, so they grabbed hold of the columns and began to climb.

FLOAT : Since when did SIGIL so detest being called by her own name?

QUARK : Since you were a bad friend and stopped checking in on her.

FLOAT : The onus is on me?
FLOAT : She’s made it very clear she doesn’t want me around.

QUARK : Yes, _after_ you had publicly insulted her.
QUARK : Come on. If she’d done that to you, you would’ve been burning effigies of her by now.

FLOAT : I apologized…

QUARK : FLOAT, that day a record was broken for most insincere apology, and I saw you accept the trophy.
QUARK : Are we here for the book, or are we here to argue?

FLOAT (mischievously) : We can do both.

QUARK : < eye rolls with exhaustion >
QUARK : We _can_, but why?

_ : 

QUARK reached a hand out for the object of their interest - a red ball, wrapped across the equator with a belt of neatly-folded black paper. The words “An exploration of BEMITE physiology” were carefully cut into the belt, the ball’s faintly-glowing crimson surface alight behind the carved-out symbols. The paper crinkled loudly as it was squeezed between QUARK’s thumbs. The two began to descend, QUARK with the book in one hand and a column in the other as he gingerly stepped down the bookshelves.

...


_ :

The two had chosen a small study. It was a claustrophobic room, lit by a single
viridian torch atop a low, basalt-colored table, and with only a single
eyeglass which floated near the ceiling, attached by a thin metal arm. FLOAT
sat, his four legs tucked neatly into a chair beneath him, adjusting the
eyeglass before his eye until he could see specks of dust dance atop the table
and shudder in the flickering light.

He unwrapped the paper belt around the book, causing it to shake slightly -
then it broke at an invisible seam and unfolded into a flat tiling of shapes,
as if it were an orange peeling itself away. The unfurling book began to take
up nearly all of the desk as it blossomed into its full form. Tugging the
eyeglass, he moved it back and forth, up and down in front of his eye… till the
microscopic wording etched into the surface fell into focus, materializing from
nothing on the humming vermillion surface.

FLOAT : Anatomy… ah, Hydration. That sounds about right.

QUARK : I would have to agree.

_ :

His friend navigated the book delicately, slowly tuning the eyeglass to keep
the words in focus as he darted across the sections of the unfolded sphere,
from indices to headings to paragraphs. QUARK watched with anxious and
impatient interest, peeking over FLOAT’s horns at the unfurled book - though of
course, without an eyeglass, there was nothing for him to see.

FLOAT (reading aloud) : The BEMITE’s biological demands are strikingly similar to our own… there is no significant difference in the amount of water needed to keep one individual of either species alive.
FLOAT : What?
FLOAT : This is exactly what I wanted _not_ to read.
FLOAT (reading aloud) : This can be gathered from a cursory examination of the records of lifetimes of foreign colonies. Each one you examine will be wholly consistent with those of our own and with those of every other BEMITE colony; the planetoids are drained at exactly the same rates.
FLOAT : Excuse me, author?!
FLOAT : Accomplished scientist you are!

_ : 

The two were silent for a moment, collecting their thoughts in the calm of the study.

QUARK : Do you know what this means, FLOAT?

FLOAT : Yes!
FLOAT : Every explanation we have is now disproven.
FLOAT : Meaning… we need more explanations.

QUARK : Everything is disagreeing with us. We have to have made a mistake.

FLOAT : < pupil shifts, in concern >
FLOAT : I hope we didn’t… but I also hope we did.
FLOAT : If we didn’t… think! Am I ready to be responsible for that? Am I ready for _that_ itself?

_ : 

QUARK dreamt briefly of his distant home. The eye of his memories saw sweeping fields of lush orange grass, rivers flowing with graceful power from snowcapped mountains into vast and clear oceans, his own reflections in the water off his family’s boat and his kicking feet making waves on the surface. He saw every year pass by in an instant; the sky growing pale, the lakes draining down, the mountains growing dry. The rivers going silent. 

Then all that again on the next world… and the next. And the next. Leaving his family behind to keep moving. Always moving. He felt quakes in his eye from the mechanical shudders of the library’s engines outside; even though in the study, it was perfectly still.

QUARK : I think it’s time we send that letter.

< record ends >





