{{iter=0}}
Record ordered on behalf of the NSIrP

<                                                                >
< sabre                                                          >
<                                                                >
< currently translating                                          >
< iteration[768221].nyxite.un -> iteration[197420].human.english >
<                                                                >
< [ note                                                         >
< [ multiple words are untranslatable                            >
< [ untranslatable words have been replaced with MNEMONICS       >
<                                                                >
< [ note                                                         >
< [ this translation set is especially difficult                 >
< [ sentences may be nonsensical in the target language          >
<                                                                >
< [ and a heaven in a wild flower                                >
<                                                                >

_ :

EMBER's pointed legs tap rhythmically against the marble floor. He reflects in the mirror finish of the tiles, fractured by their strange interlocking pattern of squares, an ornate but alien chessboard. Each of his steps rings with the echo of an untuned piano - soothing and beautiful, yet haunting in its odd dissonance. 

Like the late enforcer of his design, his own body is inspired by a long-dead spark of life in the distant past. The vague silhouette of an insect, with long, segmented legs protruding from a diamond-shaped core, and a quartet of slender, spectral wings that rise from his back, are his memento of the VOLLUX, or perhaps more of their smaller, darker, cave-dwelling brethren. But his "body" is merely a square frame, from which rises no head but a carved sigil of overlapping squares, a rune that once was just one of many on his body, one that came from the stars when he first wept for his dying world.

Bathed in the deep, amaranthine light of the Hyperverse, pouring inward like waterfalls from the monolithic windows of frosted glass that tower around him, EMBER comes to a stop, bringing the hall into silence as the echoes of his stride slowly fade. He points straight ahead. Behind him, far outside the walls, an indistinct structure in the shape of a massive spiral towers proudly, peering inwards at him through the glass.

Just in front of him, the hall ends, its two massive walls coming together to form a triangular crease. A single column of snow-white stone rises from the floor, nestled between the two converging walls. It suspends, as if by magnets, a slowly-rotating shape of twenty regular triangles. Its edges are made of a flawless, white metal, as if cut from the same ingot as EMBER himself, and the faces are made of red fire, an echo of the world outside. 

Wordlessly, motionlessly, he brings the icosahedron to a gentle stop, then lowers it softly onto the face of the column. A set of steps rise from the floor to the height of the column, sung into existence by a small verse of harmonic tones. Then the opaque filaments stretched across the triangular faces of the cell begin to melt, growing thinner and thinner, making the sound of liquid metal draining down a wall of ice. 

A triangular pupil peers at him from the rapidly-fading walls. The silhouette within - a hunched, worm-like creature with large mandibles and a set of three tentacled legs - steps back into the center of their cell as the walls around them collapse. They gradually materialize from a shadow into their full form, their gray skin and deep purple suit glowing red under the vibrant light of the Hyperverse, the jagged "hairs" atop their head set ablaze by the world's dazzling brightness, the truncated-triangle insignia of the RHOMB still emblazoned on their chest, glittering like gold. Around them, the now-empty skeleton of their cell unfolds to a flat mesh, unfurling like a blooming flower around the NYXITE.

EMBER (in UN) : IOGOS, is it?

_ :

IOGOS's eyes are aflutter with activity, scanning every surface in the ethereal cathedral they have found themselves in. They see the pattern of the tiles; the strange dark masonry that constructs the walls; the odd tessellations of glass that tower upwards and reveal the ascendant miasma of light that is the Hyperverse; the massive shadow of the spiraling tower in the far distance; and the arched ceiling that bleeds into the sky, so clear yet so far away.

EMBER : I hope that eternity was not much trouble for you.

IOGOS : Where are we?

EMBER : My museum. Do you like it?
EMBER : I enjoy things that are built with purpose, built to last. I'm sure you understand.

IOGOS : How little we understand.

EMBER : Walk with me, then. I will explain.

_ :

Promptly sensing there is nothing else to do but participate, IOGOS shambles onto the steps and slides down them to meet EMBER, their suit humming gently as it reacts with the material of the tile. The two are roughly as tall as one another, the top of EMBER's sigil just barely meeting IOGOS's eyeline. EMBER paces slowly to match IOGOS, as they pass through the beams of vermilion light crashing from outside, fading in and out of luminescence and shadow.

IOGOS : How much time has passed? What have you done with us?

EMBER : It has not been long. 
EMBER : I am willing to admit, I misjudged you at first. I thought it would be easy to silence the NYXITE. Not so.
EMBER : In fact, we have been able to come to an agreement. More than an arrangement of surrender - a partnership. And that is why you are here.

IOGOS : The NYXITE would never be your prisoners.

_ : 

EMBER stopped pacing for just a moment, and a soft metallic screech seemed to echo through the hall, reverberating from the other end.

EMBER (darkly) : Not without a fight.
EMBER : You were resourceful enough to defy my first attempt. There would not be many more, had I continued.

_ : 

He resumed - IOGOS took a moment themselves to return to his side, their triangular pupils glaring at him, lingering through his corrupted frame.

EMBER : But. The fight you have put up is an enlightening argument. I understand that we have common interests, and each of us are a core piece of this puzzle.

IOGOS : You have made yourself our enemy. There should be no voice for you.

EMBER : Those are brave words to me, considering what you have to lose. Your entire universe will be dead in a mere few hundred days - and it was not I that laid this curse on you.
EMBER : You have not a splinter of an idea of the scale to what you have done. Everything hangs in the balance now, because of you. And _I_ am burdened with your mistakes... not you with mine.

_ :

Both of them paused again, stopped in the shade between the cascades of crackling light. The hall, stretching outwards and upwards to infinity, was full with swirling silence. 

IOGOS : What are you?

_ :

EMBER turned to face IOGOS, peering beyond sight with his eyeless sigil. 

The NYXITE felt their tentacled legs slowly leave the ground - they looked down, to find with a spark of disbelief and fear, that they were now floating, just a few inches above the oddly-tiled floor, their shattered reflection looking with the same emotions back at them. EMBER, as well, had their ivory carapace drift up and suspend above the floor, his pointed legs angling slowly inwards as they left the ground.

Then, a wave carrying a quick rhythm of grinding stone reverberated down the hall. IOGOS snapped their head rightwards to look down the endless tunnel of stone and glass, from where the echo cascaded - in sections, the entire construction was coming apart, the tiles of the floor sliding up and down against each other to break their flat plane into chaotic steps, the stones in the walls repulsing away from their pattern and floating rigidly in space, the pieces of the windows snapping apart like a rapidly undone jigsaw. The entire building was a pane of glass shattering in slow motion, made unwhole by a jolting wave of orderly destruction, the thunderous drumbeat of cracking rock and steel getting louder and louder as it approached them both.

EMBER continued to sit still, floating in the gentle hold of space, while he silently orchestrated every slab of stone, every column of marble, every shape of glass to defy their design and become leaves in the wind. IOGOS gazed with wonder as all of the millions of tiny pieces in the great hall were whisked away in a cyclone about them, tracing massive arcs against the blinding backdrop of the Hyperverse.

And their eyes, scanning in every degree to watch the fragments fade into the distance, finally met with that looming thing in the distance. Clear, sharp, with the pure gaze of their own eyes, they saw it. Its image filled every empty space in their mind. 

This was it. The tree that they called home, that made up all they ever knew and ever could know, that made up all that was and all that is, that was _everything_. It was a single trunk that spiraled in beautiful strands of chaos, growing in great circles, circles that twisted between one another in every curve mathematics could describe. IOGOS saw how it was built out of segments, each of them a slight alteration of the one before, some of them twisted and dull, some of them green and lush with vibrant moss, some of them glowing with tiny stars embedded in their bark, some of them flowing with water as it poured out in ribbons into the boundless space beyond. And all of them shattered by burning swords of purple light - aberrations that scarred the tree, infused each and every one of its worlds with dark mutations, horrors that that IOGOS's heart sunk to recognize. 

IOGOS remembered what they saw on the RHOMB after the probe had hit the fractal wall. The eight hundred thousand repeated observations, each with predictable shifts in position. They remember their colleagues positing that they may have changed the past. They remembered their last moments of contact with NYXEM before them and their pieces of the RHOMB had been plunged into the wall. They heard NYXEM's voice in their head. The tree brimmed with eight hundred thousand eyes. It watched, pleading, silent.

EMBER : Do you see the past and the present before you? The future is yet to be written. And that is my responsibility now. This is what I have become.
EMBER : I did not plant this tree. The one who did has abandoned it to die. Your species, as does everything else that has lived here, has lost their home - not just because of you, but because of `it`, the grovekeeper I have succeeded.

_ :

IOGOS saw the point of light. A hexagonal star of gold and purple, shimmering like the full moon on a still night, that all of creation sprouted from. They saw how the tree had grown so far, spiraling through space over and over and over again in such an exhaustive multitudes of twists that brought it back to where it started - so that the segment at the very end, the seven hundred and sixty eight thousand two hundred and twenty first, had lost itself into the root. They saw a great, writhing shell of fractals surrounding it, around where it slowly disappeared into the root of everything, swallowed by the heavenly light of the depths of creation.

In this moment, IOGOS was the first creature to look upon the horizon, bathed in deep purples and scattered with golden echoes of the setting sun, and be beckoned to crawl towards the limitless frontier, the wild breeze flowing free against their skin. They were the first creature to gaze up at the cratered surface of another world, and imagine themselves upon its surface, stepping through alien rock and dust, watched by the otherworldly mountains painted over green skies. They were the first creature to hold an entire galaxy in their eye, knowing that on each and every star whose count defied imagining there was another and another and another world that no one had ever dreamed of, holding wonders previously only for the imagination. The cacophony of voices in their mind was so scarcely at peace, silent and stunned with awe, unwilling to even make sense of their senses, for that would ruin the beauty of what they saw.

That is the magic of new beginnings.

IOGOS felt something push against their legs again. The sound of a slow brook broke the silence that lingered over their ears. They looked about, their wet eyes blinking quickly, to notice they were now in a small, glass dome, in which there grew a tiny garden, full of grasses and flowers and little stone statues fed by creeks of shimmering water that poured in from above. They were together within it, EMBER's back legs curled up and disappearing into the grass, leaving his back against the ground and his front propped up.

EMBER : It is not power that I need, IOGOS. I am blessed by creation, and now anything I will, is.
EMBER : But the tools I have are nothing without the knowledge to use them. What can I do to save this tree? How do I be so delicate as to repair what was broken? 
EMBER : When I needed the grovekeeper to guide my hand, it would not help. 
EMBER : ...
EMBER : The NYXITE tell me that insight is the fruit of collaboration. Compelling, isn't it? It was foolish of me to not see that. You have a part to play with us.

_ :

It was then EMBER rose his front leg, holding the silver, tetrahedral point of his ivory hand out to IOGOS. They gazed back into EMBER's sigil, which seemed to loom over them, outlined in red with the passionate, churning radiance of the Hyperverse. 

IOGOS : There will be terms to any partnership between us.

EMBER : Indeed, NYXITE - your kin have explained much as they bargained for your release. You desire to undo your mistakes, not repent for them. And though death only stops with time, a still world is always dead.
EMBER : I have come to understand our philosophies are cut of the same ore. We see only how close they are with refinement.

IOGOS : We will talk further only in the presence of our colleagues.

EMBER : Then come with me. Our work must begin.

_ :

So IOGOS grabbed EMBER's hand - and the OSMITE's spectral wings unfurled, like solid beams of light shining with dust, and they both flew away.

< the end continues >

